JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: It is time
for us to come together as one
united people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The voters have
spoken.
Donald J. Trump is the
president-elect of
the United States.
Now the country looks for a path
forward.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
We have seen that our nation is
more deeply
divided than we thought, but I
still believe
in America, and I always will.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Plus, we bring
together
a variety of voices to reflect
what a Trump
presidency means for the nation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Then, a view from
abroad -- how
the rest of the world is
reacting to Trump's
win.
GILLIAN TETT, The Financial
Times: There has
also been a series of comments
from China
about the fact that this makes
American democracy
look rather peculiar at best.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And why
prediction polls
and the media were so far off --
putting a
spotlight on what was missed in
election coverage.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hillary Clinton
summed up her
crushing loss to Donald Trump
today, saying,
"This is painful, and it will be
for a long
time."
As for the new president-elect,
he stayed
out of sight after claiming
victory in the
wee hours.
That left the national stage
today to Clinton,
for perhaps one last time.
The sting of their shocking loss
was visible
on the faces of Clinton
supporters and staffers
in New York this morning as she
conceded defeat.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Last night, I congratulated
Donald Trump and
offered to work with him on
behalf of our
country.
I hope that he will be a
successful president
for all Americans.
We have seen that our nation is
more deeply
divided than we thought, but I
still believe
in America, and I always will.
And, if you do, then we must
accept this result
and then look to the future.
Donald Trump is going to be our
president.
We owe him an open mind and the
chance to
lead.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The concession
came hours after
Trump was declared the winner,
with more than
the 270 electoral votes needed
for election,
though Clinton led late today in
the popular
vote.
She urged supporters, especially
young people
and women, not to lose heart.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I have
had successes
and I have had setbacks,
sometimes really
painful ones.
Many of you are at the beginning
of your professional,
public and political careers.
You will have successes and
setbacks too.
This loss hurts, but please
never stop believing
that fighting for what's right
is worth it.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I know
-- I know we
have still not shattered that
highest and
hardest glass ceiling, but,
someday, someone
will, and hopefully sooner than
we might think
right now.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Roughly nine
hours earlier,
president-elect Trump had
declared victory,
applauding his opponent and
calling for national
unity.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: Hillary
has worked very long and very
hard over a
long period of time.
And we owe her a major debt of
gratitude for
her service to our country.
I mean that very sincerely.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: Now it's time for
America to
bind the wounds of division.
We have to get together.
To all Republicans and Democrats
and independents
across this nation, I say it is
time for us
to come together as one united
people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Trump also
reprised some of
the themes of his campaign,
hinting at potential
priorities for his coming
administration.
DONALD TRUMP: I have spent my
entire life
in business looking at the
untapped potential
in projects and in people all
over the world.
That is now what I want to do
for our country.
The forgotten men and women of
our country
will be forgotten no longer.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Obama
had gone all
out to make Clinton his
successor, but with
the question decided, he
announced he will
meet with Trump tomorrow.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
The presidency and the vice
presidency is
bigger than any of us.
So, I have instructed my team to
follow the
example that President Bush's
team set eight
years ago, and work as hard as
we can to make
sure that this is a successful
transition
for the president-elect, because
we are now
all rooting for his success in
uniting and
leading the country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Like Clinton, Mr.
Obama had
argued Trump was unfit for the
White House.
Today, he urged Americans to
accept the result.
BARACK OBAMA: We try really hard
to persuade
people that we are right.
And then people vote.
And then, if we lose, we learn
from our mistakes.
We do some reflection.
We lick our wounds.
We brush ourselves off.
We get back in the arena.
We got at it.
We try even harder the next
time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The election
outcome brought
out strong feelings from both
sides overnight,
outside Trump Tower in New York.
MAN: We have had eight years of
a liberal
person telling us that Middle
America was
nothing.
And, tonight, they came and
said, you know
what, we are -- we are America.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And in
Washington, outside
the White House itself.
MAN: As a gay, black and Latino
man, I'm scared.
It sucks.
(LAUGHTER)
MAN: This is not the way that I
envisioned
America in 2016 to be at all.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But Republican
leaders in Congress
who kept their distance from
Trump embraced
the result today.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: Look
at what a unified Republican
government can
get you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Wisconsin,
House Speaker
Paul Ryan lauded the ongoing
Republican majorities
in Congress, and put supporters
of President
Obama's health care law on
notice.
REP.
PAUL RYAN: This health care law
is collapsing
under its own weight.
And so, to your specific
question about repealing
and replacing Obamacare, the
problem is, President
Obama vetoed it.
Now we have President Trump
coming, who is
asking us to do this.
So, with unified Republican
government, we
can fix this.
We can fix these problems.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Republican
leader in the
Senate, Mitch McConnell, was
also out today,
after having little to say about
Trump during
the campaign.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: Well,
I know he's really happy we
still have a Republican
majority.
And we look forward to working
with him.
I think most of the things that
he's likely
to advocate, we're going to be
enthusiastically
for.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now the
president-elect has
73 days to work on his agenda in
Congress
and his transition before he
takes office
on January 20.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Our John Yang
and Jeffrey
Brown spent the final days on
the road following
the Trump and Clinton campaigns,
and join
us now from, where it all came
to an end last
night, in New York.
Jeff Brown, I want to start with
you.
You were there at the
celebration last night,
and today you were outside Trump
Tower.
What did you see?
Who did you talk to?
JEFFREY BROWN: I was at Trump
Tower this afternoon,
Hari.
Things heard calmed down by this
afternoon.
You heard last night, it was a
little bit
more dramatic.
This afternoon, it was a classic
New York,
New York, scene, lots of people
gawking across
the street.
We were all held across the
street, some demonstrators,
a few demonstrators, anti-Trump.
A few Trump supporters were
there, cops saying,
you know, take your photos and
move on, folks,
take your photos and move on,
folks, that
kind of situation.
The most dramatic thing was
that, in front
of the Trump Tower, where I
think I counted
seven or eight very large dump
trucks filled
with sand, those are obviously
for protection
against explosives.
Something about the -- tells you
about the
world we live in today.
And I can't help but -- I
couldn't help but
reflect as I was there on the --
again going
back to thinking about last
night, the surreal
nature of much of this, to be
looking at Trump
Tower, the wealth of Fifth
Avenue.
Gucci is in the bottom floor of
wealth tower
-- of Trump Tower -- excuse me
-- to think
about how this wealthy New York
businessman
somehow managed to connect with
so many Americans
and is now our president-elect.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jeff, you were
telling us that
today you reached out to connect
with some
of the people, Trump supporters
you met when
you were following him on the
campaign trail.
Tell us about that.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, I did,
Judy.
And I was thinking, being there
last night,
I can't help, still can't help
but think that
so many of the people I was with
in that room
didn't think that what happened
would happen.
They of course wanted to win.
Many thought there might be a
win.
But I don't think they expected
quite what
we saw.
So, I went back to talk to some
of the people
that I had met over the last
week, thinking
to myself that I was surprised
by last night.
But when I go back and think
about people
I talked to and what I saw, I'm
much less
surprised.
I talked to the Zan Bunn, who is
the head
of the North Carolina Federation
of Republican
Women, and she went directly to
Obamacare.
You just mentioned that in your
lead-in tape
piece.
She said, remember, people were
opening their
envelopes with their much higher
premium at
the exact moment when they were
opening their
ballots, their absentee ballots
to vote.
And there was that disconnect
there for people.
She said people do not want,
just decided
they didn't want more of the
same.
I talked to Ann Selzer, the
pollster in Iowa.
She said it was just really
clear in Iowa
the trade issue was resonating.
You drive along the roads in
Iowa, you see
factories closed, towns dried
up.
And I had talked to her about
Iowa when I
was there, but what we saw last
night, it
was clear that that had
connected much further
up into parts of the Midwest.
And I talked to Jeff Kaufmann
from the Iowa
Republican Committee.
And he just said it came down to
Americans
looking at two imperfect
candidates, but looking
and feeling like the best chance
of having
real change was through Donald
Trump.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
thanks, Jeff.
Also want to check in with John
Yang.
John, the mood looked almost
very much somber,
almost like a funeral today, at
least from
what we could see on TV, where
Hillary Clinton
and her supporters were.
JOHN YANG: Well, that wasn't
just supporters,
Hari.
That was senior staff.
Those were the staffers from the
Hillary for
America Organization from the
office in Brooklyn.
And it was absolutely
shell-shocked in there.
No one saw this coming that I
could talk to.
Everyone -- I asked them when
they saw -- as
they were going in, when they
first got the
senses of trouble, and they all
said that
it wasn't until well into the
night last night
it was that they started to get
the sense
that things were not going as
they anticipated.
I tried to engage them and tried
to find out,
well, what do you think
happened?
What do you think if you had
done this earlier
in Michigan, if you had done
that in another
state?
And they just waved me off.
One of them said, "I have never
been less
interested in talking about this
than now."
JUDY WOODRUFF: John, just
quickly, there was
some comment today about the
fact that Hillary
Clinton waited until this
morning to give
her speech.
What about -- what was the
thinking behind
that?
JOHN YANG: Well, I have got a
couple of things,
one, practical.
They had to get out of the
Javits Center at
2:00 a.m. this morning.
There was another event moving
in and they
had to tear down that elaborate
setup and
set up for the National
Association of Broadcasters.
The other thing is that they
really weren't
ready.
They had to look at the races
that were still
open, look and try to figure out
where the
votes were, whether they had a
shot in any
of the states that were still
open.
And also, quite frankly, I don't
think that
they were -- that she, that
Hillary Clinton
was emotionally or
psychologically ready to
give that speech last night.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
John Yang and
Jeffrey Brown joining us from
New York tonight,
thank you so much.
JEFFREY BROWN: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, the
presidential race is
decided, and Republicans will
still control
both houses of Congress, with
slightly smaller
majorities.
In the Senate, Republicans won
at least 51
seats, and they're favored to
win a runoff
in Louisiana next month.
Democrats added two more Senate
seats, including
New Hampshire.
Democrat Maggie Hassan defeated
Kelly Ayotte,
the Republican incumbent.
Over in the House, Republicans
won at least
238 seats.
Now, that's down nine from their
current number.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We dig in now
on what we
learned from the presidential
results and
what voters said leaving the
polls.
We turn to Lisa Desjardins, who
is joined
once again by Amy Walter of The
Cook Political
Report.
LISA DESJARDINS: Amy Walter,
nine hours we
were here together last night.
Imagine seeing each other again
so soon.
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: I never
want to leave here.
LISA DESJARDINS: Thank you for
joining us.
AMY WALTER: Of course.
LISA DESJARDINS: So, America is
becoming more
diverse.
And as we look at what happened
last night,
we had been talking going into
this election
a lot about race.
That was supposed to help
Hillary Clinton,
but what actually happened?
AMY WALTER: Yes.
And what we saw from the exit
polls last night
is a couple of things.
The first is, Donald Trump did a
little bit
better than Mitt Romney did
among white voters.
LISA DESJARDINS: I think we have
got some
data.
AMY WALTER: But not by a whole
lot, by one
point.
You will see Mitt Romney 20
points, Donald
Trump 21 points.
But there's another side of the
story is that
the African-American and Latino
percentage
that Clinton got, impressive,
winning by 80
and 36 percent, but not the
margins that Barack
Obama got.
And there is another story in
there as well,
and I think that we look at
white voters.
We have been dividing white
voters into these
different groups.
And we have talked a lot about
white college-educated
voters.
These were the voters that the
Clinton campaign
thought were going to tip the
victory to her.
She was going to get a
combination of the
Obama coalition, those younger,
more diverse
voters, as well as the suburban
white women
who lived in and around big
cities.
She did better than Barack
Obama.
LISA DESJARDINS: And this is
specifically
among white women.
AMY WALTER: White women.
LISA DESJARDINS: OK.
AMY WALTER: But look at --
Donald Trump did
eight points better among those
without a
college degree.
Now, she performed 12 points
better.
He was eight points better.
And it showed up on the map.
LISA DESJARDINS: So, what you're
saying here
is that she did well with
traditional Democratic
Obama coalition forces, but just
not as well
as President Obama.
AMY WALTER: Not as well as
President Obama.
I think...
LISA DESJARDINS: And did they
show up for
her as well?
You're saying she didn't get as
high a percentage
of those who came to show up,
who came to
the polls, but did as many
blacks, as many
Hispanics come out, or did more
whites, did
they have higher turnout?
AMY WALTER: I was just digging
into one state
in particular, which was
Michigan.
And it was clear that Detroit
didn't turn
out at the level for her that it
did for Barack
Obama.
On top of that, she did much
worse in some
of the exurban or rural parts of
the state.
Michigan, Wisconsin,
Pennsylvania all tell
the same story.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's what I
wanted to get
to.
I think that was the biggest
surprise last
night was this blue wall of
Hillary Clinton's.
Maybe there never was a wall
this year, or
certainly collapsed very
quickly.
AMY WALTER: I said this on
election night.
If you had told me going into
this election
that a Democrat was going to win
Virginia
and Colorado, I would have said,
well, that
candidate is going to probably
win the nomination.
Those are two big -- they were
two of the
closest states last time.
And that what I wouldn't expect,
of course,
is that Wisconsin and Michigan,
two states
that have gone for Democrats
since 1988, would
flip to Republican.
And a lot of that is built on
this, whichever
states that have more women who
graduated
from college, those who have
fewer women who
graduated from college.
When you look at the numbers in
those states,
you can see that, in Wisconsin
and Michigan,
yes, it was a blue wall.
It was a blue wall for Democrats
when Democrats
were doing better among white
voters, and
specifically white voters who
didn't live
in urban areas, or white voters
who didn't
have a college education.
LISA DESJARDINS: So, OK, all of
this is about
demographics.
But I wonder, Amy, is the point
that last
night was not about
demographics, that there
is something else going on?
AMY WALTER: That's absolutely
true.
And I think a lot of us in the
business, we
got really wedded to this idea
of demographics,
especially because we watched
Barack Obama
in 2008 and 2012 with this
amazing analytics
team that told us that you could
actually
look at the demographics of an
electorate
and understand where they were
going to vote.
LISA DESJARDINS: It's
mathematical.
AMY WALTER: It's all about math,
but really
it's also about message.
Barack Obama had a message.
It was hope and change.
It was that he had the auto
bailout.
He was working for people.
Hillary Clinton didn't have that
message.
It didn't address the rising
anxiety and frustration
and anger that's been brewing
there, the time
for change theme.
Donald Trump did.
LISA DESJARDINS: Amy Walter of
The Cook Political
Report, I look forward to what
you find out
in the next week of reading
through and your
analysis.
AMY WALTER: Thank you.
LISA DESJARDINS: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For more on
Donald Trump's
stunning upset and what it
means, we are joined
by Ellen Fitzpatrick,
presidential historian
and author of the book "The
Highest Glass
Ceiling, Matt Schlapp, chairman
of the American
Conservative Union, J.D. Vance,
author of
the new book "Hillbilly Elegy,"
Betsy McCaughey,
former lieutenant governor of
New York and
an economic adviser to the Trump
campaign.
Stefanie Brown James, she's the
former director
of African-American outreach for
President
Obama's 2012 campaign, and Ali
Noorani, executive
director of the National
Immigration Forum.
And we welcome all of you to the
"NewsHour."
I just want to go around the
group first and
ask you just to give me a
sentence, starting
with you, Matt Schlapp, on your
reaction today.
What do you think about these
results?
MATT SCHLAPP, Former White House
Director
of Political Affairs: Well, I
have to say
I feel a bit vindicated.
It's been a tough campaign, I
think, for both
sides.
It's been grueling.
The word I kept using was raw.
And I think nobody expected or
very few people
expected for Trump to just
explode in the
Electoral College like he did.
And it's a fantastic night for
anybody who
wanted change in Washington.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stefanie Brown
James?
STEFANIE BROWN JAMES, The
Collective PAC:
I think raw is actually a great
question -- I
mean, a great response that Matt
gave.
A lot of people that are in my
community are
feeling very raw today because
the wounds
that Donald Trump opened when he
had so many
disparaging remarks against
minorities, against
women, we continue to have those
wounds really
rubbed into today with him now
being the president.
And a lot of us are
wondering,how do we tell
our children that a person who
can be, you
know, a bully, who can talk
badly about women
is now the president of our
country?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Betsy McCaughey,
what are you
thinking today?
BETSY MCCAUGHEY, Former New York
Lieutenant
Governor: The results were a
repudiation of
Hillary Clinton's class warfare
rhetoric.
Americans don't hate rich
people.
They would like to be rich.
And Donald Trump's proposals to
lift everyone
by increasing prosperity, more
jobs, more
take-home pay really resounded.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ali Noorani?
ALI NOORANI, Executive Director,
National
Immigration Forum: I think the
Trump victory
has tapped an emotional nerve.
So, I would capture this as a
very emotional
day.
When you talk -- when we're
talking to people
across the Latino community, the
Asian community
and their allies across the
broad American
public, there are a lot of raw
emotions, some
obviously in favor of Trump, the
Trump win,
and others really wondering
where we're all
going.
JUDY WOODRUFF: J.D. Vance, where
are you today?
J.D. VANCE, Author, "Hillbilly
Elegy: A Memoir
of a Family and Culture in
Crisis": Well,
I think it's just remarkable how
wrong the
conventional wisdom was.
It was utterly shocking that
Donald Trump
won to people who live on the
coasts, but
to people who live in the areas
that I come
from, it was utterly
predictable.
And that suggests something
really, really
broken about our political
culture.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Ellen
Fitzpatrick?
ELLEN FITZPATRICK, Professor of
History, University
of New Hampshire: Well, I was
surprised the
polling with you so inaccurate,
in some sense,
and I was also -- I really
thought having,
as a historian, studied the
history of women's
quest for the American
presidency over a long
period of time, since Victoria
Woodhull ran
the for presidency first in
1872, that Hillary
Clinton was going to break
through that glass
ceiling this time.
I did have that expectation.
So, I was quite stunned,
actually.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Matt Schlapp,
I wanted to
ask you, what's the message that
all these
millions of voters who voted for
Trump, what
are they sending?
MATT SCHLAPP: I just feel like
they feel like
they're cut out of what's
happening in Washington.
They feel like they're cut out
of the economic
opportunities that Americans
always felt was
a part of the American dream.
You know, when you don't have
your real income,
your take-home pay increase for
a decade or
a decade-and-a-half, it makes
you awfully
discouraged.
And then when you see other
things in society
changing so rapidly, and you
think that government
is ineffective and unable to --
incapable
of taking steps, appropriate
steps to make
sure that America can lead, lead
on the international
stage and lead the international
economy,
I think that was so much of
this.
But I think it was also -- look,
it was a
repudiation -- I think the
voters like President
Obama.
He has very high approvals.
I give him credit for that.
But I do think his policies have
hurt more
people.
You can see that by the poverty
statistics.
And I think this was a bit of
repudiation
of Obamacare and his policies.
I also think Hillary's
corruption, she just
could never get through that.
Look at all those exit polls.
They're just astonishing.
The voters really made a
judgment on Hillary
Clinton's ethics.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stefanie Brown
James, I
wanted to ask, that message that
those voters
are sending, counter that with
the message
that the Hillary Clinton
campaign was sending
and which -- why didn't her
message, if she
had one that was clear, why
didn't that prevail?
STEFANIE BROWN JAMES: Well, I
think that's
a major challenge, in that a lot
of people,
especially in the black
community, Latino
community, didn't feel as though
Hillary Clinton
had a direct enough message for
them to explain
why she was the right choice,
not just based
off of experience, but what it
was that she
was going to do for these
communities to continue
to uplift them if she became
elected president.
One of the challenges that I
have been saying
for a long time is that, you
know, a campaign
is won by your infrastructure
and your ground
game.
And, unfortunately, what we
didn't see enough
from the Clinton campaign was a
strong enough
ground game to reach out to
voters, to get
real-time, real information from
people who
you were asking for their votes,
to be able
to determine how best to
continue to engage
them.
And I think that the Clinton
campaign and
the Democrats relied too heavily
on President
Obama to turn out the base of
voters they
needed to get Hillary Clinton
the win.
And what we saw was that enough
effort wasn't
put in to make sure that those
voters who
needed to go to the polls in
strong numbers,
African-American, women, youth,
Latinos, it
just wasn't enough.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Betsy McCaughey.
BETSY MCCAUGHEY: I would like to
jump in on
that issue of the ground game,
because I drew
the opposite conclusion, that
this election
really demonstrated that
emphasis on the ground
game is now obsolete.
Donald Trump had virtually no
ground game,
although the RNC had something
of a ground
game.
He spent less than half as much
winning this
presidency as his opponent,
Hillary Clinton,
did.
And I have to say, the taxpayers
are hoping
that he will be as effective at
getting his
money's worth as president as he
was as a
candidate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ali -- go ahead,
Stefanie.
STEFANIE BROWN JAMES: But they
were reaching
two very different audiences
with two very
different tactics.
If you are drawing upon the
emotional concerns
of voters, as Matt mentioned,
who are very
much concerned that the America
they know
is being taken over by people
who don't look
like them -- let's be frank --
then that's
an emotional appeal that is not
going to be
the same as for black voters,
for example,
who you need to knock on their
doors and have
conversations to say why they
need to vote
for Hillary Clinton.
This is not about why they
should or shouldn't
vote for Donald Trump.
It's about, why should you vote
for Hillary
Clinton?
And you need that ground game in
order to
have people understand why she
should be your
choice.
And that, unfortunately, didn't
happen in
strong enough numbers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to bring
Ali Noorani
in here in terms of the message.
Was it a case of Hillary Clinton
not getting
that message across, or was it
that Donald
Trump's appeal was just to
powerful, it overwhelmed
whatever Hillary Clinton was
doing?
ALI NOORANI: Well, when you look
at the numbers,
I mean, Hillary's message
resonated in urban
areas.
But Donald Trump clearly tapped
into a nerve
across suburban and rural
America that we
just haven't seen tapped in such
a powerful
way before.
He overperformed what Romney was
able to do
in 2012 and he was able to run
up those margins.
So, I think, at the end of the
day, this was
an election not just about an
emotion, but
this emotion of anxiety, and an
anxiety that
was triggered by economic fears,
cultural
fears.
So, we have been looking, and as
we have been
thinking about this over the
last day, this
is a moment where we...
JUDY WOODRUFF: This is the
Immigration Forum.
ALI NOORANI: Right, right, at
the forum, looking
at this election as one about
culture and
values and what it means to be
an American.
And when you look at over the
last few months,
a lot of people, yes, they -- a
lot of Trump
voters want to see a solution in
terms of
immigration.
They want to see greater
regulation, a greater,
a stronger border.
But some of their solutions
actually are different
from what the candidate put
forward.
So I think Donald Trump has an
incredible
challenge to translate his
campaign promises
into a consensus-building
policy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Betsy McCaughey,
do the rest
of Americans have something to
fear when it
comes to this gap between what
Donald Trump
had said on the campaign trail
vs. what he
might do as president?
BETSY MCCAUGHEY: I don't...
HARI SREENIVASAN: I mean, you
see the social
conversations today, that
there's a huge group
of people, whether it's women,
whether it's
minorities, whether it's
immigrants, who are
concerned that they don't know
where they
stand with the new president.
BETSY MCCAUGHEY: Yes.
Well, actually, I found most of
his message
quite unifying, because the
emphasis was on
prosperity.
I did want to touch upon
something that one
of our contributors said a
moment ago about
women and failing to break the
glass ceiling.
And here's how I see this.
Hillary Clinton was urging
voters to make
history, but a lot of voters,
particularly
women, had trouble with her
history.
And she was portraying herself
as a feminist,
as a glass ceiling breaker, but,
in fact,
in the eyes of many women,
especially women
closer to Hillary Clinton's own
age, she had
gotten where she was primarily
on her husband's
coattails.
She was less a Susan B. Anthony
and more an
Evita.
And so they found this
unconvincing.
And millennial women who are out
there every
day competing with men don't see
the issue.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ellen
Fitzpatrick?
ELLEN FITZPATRICK: I think this
kind of rhetoric
and exaggeration that has really
informed
this entire campaign does very
little to elevate
the political process.
And it's very unfortunate.
It was amazing last night to see
Donald Trump,
who had been describing Hillary
Clinton as
crooked and corrupt, in a matter
of a moment,
was describing her as a fine and
dedicated
public servant, once he had won
the election.
So, there was a kind of
barbarism all the
way around, I think, in this
political campaign,
in which the issues really were
boiled down
to very small sound bites.
The impact of mass media on
presidential elections,
a process in television which
really began
in 1960, is reaching its logical
conclusion
here.
And I think it's -- the public
is not well-served
by it, frankly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: J.D. Vance, in
your book "Hillbilly
Elegy," you deal, of course,
with white working-class
Americans, many of whom you
write about feeling
forgotten, disrespected.
What do you think they are now
looking for
Donald Trump to do, and do you
think he can
deliver for them?
Well, just answer the first part
yet.
What do you think they're
looking for from
him?
J.D. VANCE: Well, the first
thing that I think
they're looking for, they have
already gotten,
which is a sense of vindication
that they
predicted, they knew that the
media was corrupt,
that they were lying about the
outcome of
the election, and Donald Trump
really proved
them right in some ways.
So, I think that there should be
some soul-searching
from the press, who predicted
that Trump would
lose very, very handily.
But, of course, that didn't
happen.
And I think that corrodes some
of the trust
that a lot of folks back home
have in the
mainstream press.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, if I could
just interrupt
for a second, that was based on
polls that
pretty universally were showing
Hillary Clinton
ahead, because we don't do our
own polling.
But go ahead, please.
J.D. VANCE: Yes.
No, of course.
I'm not trying to be
hyper-critical of the
press, but I think that even the
polls suggested
a fair amount of volatility.
And there was a certain degree
of certainty,
even though I don't think that
certainty was
necessarily supported by the
polls that suggested
Hillary Clinton was slightly
ahead, but not
very comfortably ahead, as a lot
of folks
talked about.
But I think what people want to
see from the
Trump presidency is,
fundamentally, they want
to see a more repaired and
better path to
the middle class.
What a lot of folks feel -- and
some of the
other commenters have mentioned
this -- is
that there isn't a very clear
way for somebody
who's working-class, who is
middle-income
to really get ahead in 21st
century America.
That implicates our education
system.
It also implicates our local and
regional
economies.
And I think that folks will
expect Trump to
fix a lot of those things.
But, of course, it's a really
tall order,
and it's not going to happen
overnight.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Matt Schlapp,
sometimes,
the saying is that campaigning
is the easy
part, governing is the hard
part.
As J.D. Vance just said, there's
a lot of
expectations that people have.
All those people that put Trump
into office,
they want to see results.
And now, technically speaking,
no excuses.
Congress, both the House and the
Senate, are
Republican, as well as the White
House.
What is the Trump deliverable in
the first
day, first 100 days, first year?
MATT SCHLAPP: Yes, you know
what?
It's going to be time for us to
put up or
shut up.
You know, it's hard to reverse
all of the
problems we have seen in the
economy that
we have seen with these
working-class voters,
these blue-collar voters that
turned out in
just droves for Donald Trump.
But there are actually some easy
things we
could do.
Our tax -- our corporate tax
structure is
a disaster.
And many of us who are small
business people
actually pay at higher rates
than corporations
do.
We have some of the highest
corporate taxes
in the globe.
And what we're seeing is that
corporations
are leaving America for the sole
reason of
taxes.
Second of all, we could do
something about
our regulatory structure.
Look, you could look at climate
change.
The impact of chasing after
regulating carbon
dioxide has really shed our
economy of manufacturing
jobs and additional energy jobs.
We all know about the war on
coal.
We can all have our opinions on
things like
climate change, but we can't
disagree on the
fact that it has shed so many
jobs in these
communities and in these states,
states that
Donald Trump did very well in.
So, Republicans, of which I'm a
proud member
of that party, being in control
of Congress,
although we don't have 60 votes
in the Senate
-- and it's always important to
say that,
which is, there is still going
to be bipartisanship
and all these things -- we
really ought to
do something on our taxes, and
we ought to
do something on our regulatory
structure.
And ought to be more competitive
internationally.
And then the investments that
are sitting
on the sidelines would start to
flow into
our economy.
I really think middle-class
America will be
well-served by that, and, of
course, a fix
of Obamacare.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me turn to
Stefanie Brown
James, because you started out,
Stefanie,
by talking about raw feelings in
the African-American
community, the communities of
people of color
in this country.
If this principal focus of a new
President
Donald Trump is on economic
issues like what
we just heard Matt Schlapp and
Betsy McCaughey
describe, does that in some way
reassure,
assuage some of the concerns
that you expressed?
STEFANIE BROWN JAMES: I mean,
definitely,
you know, there is no doubt
about that, you
know, communities of color are
very much concerned
about the economy, being able to
make sure
that they have enough food to
give their families.
So, poverty is also a big issue.
But the challenge comes down to
respect.
And if there is a president who
you feel doesn't
fundamentally see you as an
equal to other
Americans, doesn't respect you,
doesn't respect
your life, then it doesn't
matter what policy
position they put forward or
what plans they
put forward, because the
humanity -- you feel
your humanity is not being seen
by your own
president or your own
government.
But, to be quite frank, you
know, I'm excited
to see what the Republican
Congress is going
to do, what this new Republican
president
is going to do, because I do
think that it
is time to show up and to prove
that the policies
that they say they want to put
forth that's
going to, you know, help the
middle class,
that it's going to actually make
a difference.
I think people conveniently like
to forget
that, you know, President Obama
inherited
a doomsday economy, so I want to
see what
this Republican-led government
is going to
do to get us into a better
shape.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Ali Noorani, I
just wanted
to pick up on something that she
just said.
How do you get these communities
to feel respected?
ALI NOORANI: Well, I think we're
in for an
interesting ride.
I should start with, I do not
believe that
every person that voted for
Donald Trump is
a xenophobe or a racist.
On the other hand, some of the
things that
Donald Trump said over the
course of the campaign
gave voice and gave permission
to people to
do some very, very terrible
things.
Just today, I saw news of a
swastika being
painted on walls in
Philadelphia.
So we're going to unfortunately
see these
kinds of things as we move
forward through
this administration.
President-elect Trump, when he
becomes President
Trump, is going to have an
incredible opportunity
to heal this country and to be
able to, in
essence, take that permission
away.
MATT SCHLAPP: Oh, just very
quickly on this
respect question, I think that's
so right.
But, remember, I think actually
this really
boomeranged on Hillary Clinton.
We focused so much on Donald
Trump's rhetoric.
But when she called Donald Trump
supporters
a basket of deplorables, you can
see it in
the exits.
It just destroyed her with these
voters.
And when called Christians --
not her, but
her staff in these leaked
e-mails -- called
Catholics and Christians
backwards, you can
just see Donald Trump did -- he
actually won
Catholic voters.
So, you know, this idea of
rhetoric out of
control is something that really
hurt Hillary
Clinton in this race.
JUDY WOODRUFF: J.D. Vance, how
do you see
this playing out?
J.D. VANCE: Well, I think that,
first of all,
Donald Trump and the Republican
Party has
to recognize that, though they
obviously won
this election, if you look at
their low numbers
among black voters, among Latino
voters, this
is not a long-term coalition
that they can
build on.
And so I really do think it
comes down to
respect.
It comes down to being gracious.
It comes down to really showing
compassion
for the problems of the black
and Latino communities.
And I really hope that Donald
Trump takes
the ball that's in his court and
tries to
go after those voters, tries to
show some
compassion, and really offers
them something
substantive to get excited about
Republican
and conservative policy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just a final word
from Ellen
Fitzpatrick on bringing the
country together.
Is it possible?
ELLEN FITZPATRICK: Of course
it's possible,
Judy.
This was a very close election.
And, in fact, I believe Hillary
Clinton, at
least the latest count, shows
that she won
the popular vote.
There was a lopsided vote in the
Electoral
College, as there often is.
So, we remain a very divided
electorate.
And it will be, of course, an
imperative of
the new president to try to
address those
divisions and to bring the
country together
in order to govern.
This is not a -- this is not
"The Apprentice."
And, in four years, you're fired
if you're
not able to address the concerns
of the American
citizens.
So, it's a tall order for
someone without
experience in politics or
military service,
and it's a new model.
We will get to see how it plays
out.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, the
conversations are
just beginning.
This is only the first day after
we have learned
the results of the election.
But we are so glad that you were
all able
to join us.
Ellen Fitzpatrick, Matt Schlapp,
we thank
you.
J.D. Vance, Stefanie Brown
James, Betsy McCaughey,
and Ali Noorani, we thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now the view
from overseas.
The election was watched
closely, both with
anticipation and fear.
And, as chief foreign affairs
correspondent
Margaret Warner reports, today,
the rest of
the world awoke to an America
profoundly changed.
MARGARET WARNER: The stunning
news ricocheted
around the world from Tehran to
Tokyo, Istanbul
to Berlin, met with apprehension
by some and
applause by others.
In Moscow, the Russian
Parliament erupted
in cheers at the announcement,
and President
Vladimir Putin was among the
first to congratulate
Trump, who had lauded Putin as a
strong leader.
Nathan Hodge is a Wall Street
Journal correspondent
in Moscow.
He says there is glee over the
divisive U.S.
election.
NATHAN HODGE, The Wall Street
Journal: It's
a way that, basically, that
Russia, which
has seen lots of scolding from
the United
States and the West about the
way that it
conducts elections and the
authoritarian tendencies
of its leadership, they can now
point to the
United States and say, look, you
guys, you're
not so great yourselves.
MARGARET WARNER: Russia also
left its imprint
on the election, with
allegations that it
engineered the hacking of
Democratic Party
e-mails to embarrass Hillary
Clinton.
All of this has NATO allies
nervous.
Its member states, especially in
Eastern Europe,
rely on the U.S. as a
counterweight to Moscow
and a guarantor of their
security.
Alliance leaders made clear
today they are
looking for Trump to maintain a
tough line
with Putin after Russia's
annexation of Crimea,
and to abandon his campaign talk
of putting
conditions on the U.S.
commitment to NATO.
The president of Latvia says
he's willing
to give the incoming president
some time.
RAIMONDS VEJONIS, President of
Latvia (through
translator): Of course, during
the campaign,
Trump came out with many blunt
statements
on many issues, but we should
remember that
it was a pre-election time.
Let's see what the
administration of the president
will look like.
MARGARET WARNER: But, in France,
President
Francois Hollande said the
result -- quote
-- "opens a period of
uncertainty."
Reaction in nationalist quarters
of Europe
was exultant.
"NewsHour" special correspondent
Malcolm Brabant
spoke to us from Copenhagen.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Right-wing
leaders across
Europe are basically seeing the
Trump victory
as a validation of their
policies.
You have got people like Marine
Le Pen, who
is the leader of the French
National Front,
she's going into a presidential
election in
six months' time.
The latest polls give her about
30 percent
of the vote, and she will see
what happened
in America as being
encouragement for French
voters, saying, if it can happen
in the United
States, why can't it happen
here?
MARGARET WARNER: That
nationalism already
triumphed in Britain.
British Prime Minister Theresa
May says her
nation's special relationship
with the U.S.
remains.
But she came to office last
summer after British
citizens voted for Brexit to
abandon the European
Union.
Trump embraced the move, calling
himself Mr.
Brexit at one point.
Also in question is America's
participation
in the Paris climate accord.
Trump has called climate change
a hoax, and
while it would take four years
to formally
pull out of the agreement, there
are no sanctions
in place for ignoring it.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel
says she watched
the U.S. election results --
quote -- "with
trepidation," but that she will
work with
Trump.
Trump has called Merkel insane
for taking
in a large number of refugees.
The center of that refugee
crisis remains
in Syria, now in its sixth year
of civil war.
People in Aleppo, locus of the
fighting now,
say their low hopes for U.S.
protection remain
the same.
WISSAM ZARQA, Syrian Teacher: We
are trying
to look at the bright side.
Trump has no promises at all for
the Syrian
people.
Before, we had empty promises.
So, now it would make us maybe
more realistic.
MARGARET WARNER: Elsewhere in
the Middle East,
there's unease over Trump's
campaign calls
to ban many Muslims from
entering the U.S.
Egyptian President Abdel Fattah
El-Sisi was
one the first world leaders to
telephone congratulations
overnight, but others in Egypt
struck a different
tone.
MAN: He hate Muslims, whether he
admits it
or not.
He's afraid of Arabs.
MARGARET WARNER: On the other
hand Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu spoke with
Trump today, calling him a great
friend of
Israel.
His education minister put it
more plainly,
saying Trump's victory means --
quote -- "the
era of the Palestinian state is
over."
The Israeli government sharply
opposed the
U.S. nuclear deal with Iran, and
Trump has
suggested he will try to
renegotiate the lifting
of sanctions it provided.
Borzou Daragahi, Middle East
correspondent
for BuzzFeed in Istanbul, said
that will be
difficult.
BORZOU DARAGAHI, BuzzFeed: The
U.S. could,
in theory, ramp up unilateral
sanctions, but
it never really ramped them
down, except for
the ones that were kind of
imposed by the
executive.
The ones that are by Congress
are still in
place and remain in place.
MARGARET WARNER: The
president-elect also
wants to revisit major trade
deals, such as
the 12-nation Trans-Pacific
Partnership, which
has yet to be ratified.
China's President Xi Jinping
telephoned Trump
himself today, voicing hope for
-- quote -- "non-conflict
and non-confrontation."
U.S. tensions with Beijing have
ratcheted
up over China's aggressive moves
in the contested
waters of the South China Sea.
Gillian Tett, the U.S. managing
editor for
The Financial Times in New York,
spoke of
the Chinese reaction.
GILLIAN TETT, The Financial
Times: There is
certainly a lot of questioning
and a lot of
concern.
There has also been a series of
comments from
China about the fact that this
makes American
democracy look rather peculiar
at best.
MARGARET WARNER: Closer to home,
Trump's victory
was met with alarm in Mexico
City, given his
talk of building a border wall
and making
Mexico pay for it.
The Mexican peso crashed
overnight, hitting
levels not seen for more than 20
years.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the wake of
last night's
huge upset, there are many
questions about
what the pollsters, the pundits
and many journalists
may have missed.
To tackle this, we are joined by
Margaret
Sullivan.
She is the media columnist for
The Washington
Post.
Steve Deace, he is a popular
conservative
radio talk show host in Iowa.
And Jim Rutenberg is a media
columnist for
The New York Times.
And we welcome all of you to the
"NewsHour."
Margaret Sullivan, you're
sitting here next
to me.
I'm going to start with you.
We heard J.D. Vance say in that
previous discussion
in the program we saw the news
media, he said,
lying about what was going to
happen in this
election based on the polls.
And I pointed out that we depend
on the polls,
but we don't do the polls
ourselves.
But how good a job or poor a job
did the media
do this time?
MARGARET SULLIVAN, The
Washington Post: Well,
I don't think that the
mainstream media was
lying about what was going to
happen.
I think we missed the
overarching story to
a large extent.
And that is a failure on our
part.
But it wasn't the result of, you
know, a plan
or a lie or anything as -- quite
as venal
as that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Steve Deace, I
want to ask,
how much of this is a disconnect
between the
people who write the stories and
the people
who are out living them in the
middle of the
country?
STEVE DEACE, Radio Talk Show
Host: I think
it's a massive disconnect.
And I'm someone who used to work
at a major
city newspaper which is
considered mainstream
or liberal media.
I have done a lot of work with
USA Today and
MSNBC, which are considered the
same, because
I like to engage people that
have different
ideas than me and maybe even
persuade them.
But how many people in the
newsroom here right
now at PBS, how many that work
here, how many
are pro-life?
How many of them go to church or
to mass once
a week?
How many of them voted for
Trump?
And I think there is a lot of
talk of the
lack of diversity.
There is a huge lack of
ideological and cultural
diversity in our newsrooms.
And I think that's creating a
massive disconnect
nationwide.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jim Rutenberg,
connect those
two things.
We just heard Margaret Sullivan
speak about
how the press missed the story,
and we hear
Steve Deace saying how
disconnected we are
from the rest of the country.
How do you see all of this?
JIM RUTENBERG, The New York
Times: Well, I
kind of, in a way, agree with
all of the above,
in that it's indisputable that
America's newsrooms,
especially its mainstream
newsrooms, are not
diverse with ideological
opinion.
But a lot of journalists are not
-- don't
consider themselves ideological,
though much
of the country doesn't believe
that these
days.
So -- but I do believe that we
need people
with different backgrounds.
But mainstream newsrooms aren't
going to go
looking for people with
ideological viewpoints.
It's not what we do.
Our editorial page issue should.
But you do want people who at
least grew up
or kind of are immersed in the
kind of thinking.
The one thing I want to argue
here, though,
is that this isn't about
geography.
It's not about the middle of the
country.
And I wrote this today, that
it's a state
of mind.
And so there are people on Long
Island who
are hard-core Trump voters who I
don't think
are understood by most
mainstream news reporters
who live amongst them.
Right?
So, it's a psychology, as much
as it is about
geography.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Margaret
Sullivan, what
about the idea that there is an
affirmation
bias in the press, that perhaps
we went along
with the polls because it was
more palatable
or whatever -- the prediction
was more palatable,
and that we didn't dig into the
numbers on
how the polls got to the way
they were, especially
considering there was such
uniformity?
MARGARET SULLIVAN: This was the
year of magical
thinking on the part of a lot of
journalists.
We thought that it would be --
it was unthinkable
that someone who was insulting
people, saying
racist and xenophobic and sexist
and misogynist
things could become the
president.
And so we didn't really -- many
of us didn't
really deal with the idea that
this could
the case.
And the polls were close enough
and the election
forecasts were often saying that
Hillary Clinton
would, you know, win, and you
know, she was
probable by 85 percent or
something like that.
So, there were a lot of factors
working for
us.
I think that we did get out into
the different
parts of the country and do some
reporting.
Did we do enough?
Did we listen hard enough?
I wonder about that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Steve Deace, you
brought up
a moment ago journalists, the
whole disconnect
point.
You know, we have strived, I
think, in newsrooms
for years to become, as we like
to put it,
more like America, to be more
diverse.
But I hear you saying we have
missed a whole
chunk of the country in our
effort to be diverse.
STEVE DEACE: I don't think there
is any question
about this.
I read something an L.A. Times
film critic
said a year ago, when "American
Sniper" was
the number one movie.
And he said, listen, the only
people surprised
this is the number one movie are
the people
that live in the two coasts and
haven't visited
the 47 states in between.
You know, what Margaret said
about some of
the things Trump said, I mean,
that's why
I was #NeverTrump.
I was disturbed by those things.
But you know what also disturbed
me?
To hear Hillary Clinton say that
I am her
-- quote -- "enemy," the
comments that were
made in the previous segment
from the WikiLeaks
e-mails calling Christians
backwards, the
fact that those of us who think
that we shouldn't
have men in bathrooms next to
our young daughters
are called bigots, when we used
to just call
them parents.
Those things create a backlash
as well.
So, I don't fault the media for
thinking that
Trump couldn't get elected
because of his
incendiary comments.
The fault, though, comes in the
fact that
an equal light was not shed on
Hillary's incendiary
comments and the backlash that
created against
her, which we saw in the vote
total last night.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jim Rutenberg,
what about that?
JIM RUTENBERG: Yes.
I think -- and I think that what
we learned
from the lack of reaction, I
think this is
where we see the disconnect, how
we ask ourselves,
and including some never-Trump
Republicans
-- did the incendiary comment
from Mr. Trump
not create a backlash, and how
did he get
elected in spite of it all?
And I think that goes to, again,
not understanding
the level of anger in other
parts of the country
and, to my point, certain people
everywhere.
And they care much more about
the ills that
Mr. Trump was promising to cure
than they
cared about whatever personal
traits we were
writing about in our coverage.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Margaret
Sullivan, what
about this potential of almost
an observer
effect, having Jim's paper, The
New York Times,
or The Washington Post, having
these predictions
on a daily basis seeing that
Hillary Clinton
is going to win by 92 percent
probability
or 85?
Does that end up having kind of
a confirmation
effect over time, saying, well,
maybe I don't
need to go out there and vote or
this is really
the narrative anyway?
Am I countering that?
Am I challenging that narrative
with a different
type of story?
MARGARET SULLIVAN: I think, when
you walk
into the voting booth, it's a
very emotional
issue.
And I believe that, for many
people, the idea
of the Clintons back in the
White House was
something that, when they
actually walked
into the voting booth, they just
didn't want
to countenance, and that you can
talk about
experience or inexperience or
incendiary comments
or stronger together, make
America great again,
but a lot of times, it's a
purely emotional
issue.
And it speaks to how you feel
about your life
and the direction of the
country.
And I think that's really what
we saw happening.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Steve Deace, it's
such a big
subject to look at how the media
and a president
interact.
But if there were mistakes made
in the campaign,
how can the media, shall we say,
be closer
to the mark in how we approach
covering the
Trump presidency?
STEVE DEACE: I think one of the
big things,
people misunderstood FOX's
original appeal
when it was launched 20 years
ago.
Its original appeal is that it
looked at institutions
of America, the military,
churches, the family.
It didn't look or view them with
instantaneous
suspicion, because most
Americans do not.
And, frankly, a lot of people
that live in
more progressive enclaves do.
So I think, for example,
treating those institutions,
a lot of what you like to call
flyover country,
or, as the other guest pointed
out, Long Island,
would consider to be Americana,
but to deal
with them objectively, I think
that is key.
And I also fear that the media
has maybe made
a mistake with Trump that we
conservatives
made with Bill Clinton in the
'90s, where
we were so over the top, so
hysterical in
our condemnations and
conspiracies and the
like, that, when something
serious came along,
like a president lying under
oath to a federal
grand jury, a lot of Americans
just sort of
waved their hand, Judy, and
said, oh, you
guys are always the boy who
cried wolf.
In many respects, you guys have
almost insulated
Mr. Trump from any legitimate
criticism he
may have as president, because
they are just
going to roll their eyes and
say, there goes
the media again.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, there's
much more to
discuss here.
And, again it's the first day
after this election.
These are all conversations that
will continue.
But thank you very much, all
three, Steve
Deace, Jim Rutenberg, Margaret
Sullivan.
Thank you.
MARGARET SULLIVAN: Thank you,
Judy.
Thank you, Hari.
JIM RUTENBERG: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In other news:
Proponents
of legalized marijuana are
celebrating Tuesday's
results.
Three states, California,
Massachusetts, and
Nevada, approved its
recreational use.
Voters in Florida, Arkansas, and
North Dakota
legalized pot for medical
purposes.
In other ballot measures, gun
control initiatives
passed in California, Nevada and
Washington
state, and Nebraska voted to
reinstate the
death penalty.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Donald Trump's
victory staggered
the financial markets at first,
but they rebounded
by the time the day was done.
The Dow Jones industrial average
soared nearly
257 points to close at 18589.
The Nasdaq rose 57, and the S&P
500 added
23.
On the "NewsHour" online right
now, our election
analysis continues.
A prominent libertarian...
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will tell you
about that
later, because we got to get off
the air.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
later.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
For all of us at the "NewsHour,"
thank you,
and good night.